# Content & Sizing:

- Everything displayed by CSS is a box.
- Boxes have different behaviour based on their display property's value, their set dimensions
  and content they contain.
- The content can be a plain text or more boxes generated by child elements.
- In either of the above scenario, the content affects the size of the box.

## Extrinsic Vs Intrinsic sizing:

- When an element's dimension is set in CSS, then it is said to have extrinsic sizing.
- In Extrinsic sizing, the box with set dimensions will control the content.
- But even when extrinsic sizing is used above a threshold content overflows out of the box.
- One way to instrinsically size the element would be to set the width of the box's width property
  to the value "min-content".
- It means that the box should be as wide as the content inside it such that it wraps around it.
- [Example](https://codepen.io/web-dot-dev/pen/abpoMBL)

# Areas of Box Model:

- The four main areas of the box model are:
  - Content box
  - Padding box
  - Border box
  - Margin box

## Content box:

- Content box can control the size of it's parent.
- The content box often has a flexible size because its size can grow or shrink based on what’s inside — unless it's
  restricted by the parent.

## Padding box:

- It surrounds the content box
- It is created by padding property
- Scroll bars occupies this space if overflow: auto and overflow: scroll is set
- [Example](https://codepen.io/web-dot-dev/pen/BaReoEV)

## Border box:

- It surrounds the padding box

## Margin box:

- It is the space around the box
- Outline and box-shadow use this space too and don't affect the size of the box.
- [Outline](https://codepen.io/web-dot-dev/pen/XWprGea)

## Box Sizing:

- An inline element's vertical margin exists but they do not affect the layout.
- By default, the box-sizing is "content-box" by default meaning, the padding and border will be added with the
  elements width and height (total width = content + padding + border)
- When box-sizing is "border-box" it includes padding ,
  border and width in the total. ( total width = content + padding + border.)



# References:

- [Google's web.dev article](https://web.dev/learn/css/box-model)
